Ladies and gentlemen,
please welcome Todd Fernandez.
Well, good morning.
Welcome to session 303,
Developing for Automator.
As I was just introduced,
I'm Todd Fernandez,
the Automator Engineering Manager.
And I'm thrilled to be
here with you this morning,
representing the Automator team,
to tell you what you need to know about
how to take advantage of this exciting
new technology for your applications.
So what I hope you take away from this
session this morning is a much better
understanding of what Automator is,
including its key
features and terminology,
why it's important to you,
and most importantly,
how you can take advantage of this
new technology for your applications.
We'll cover the SDK and
design guidelines to help you.
So I would like to set the stage a
little bit by first talking about what
things were like before yesterday.
With current technology,
it's been very difficult to take
advantage and exploit powerful
network effects of combining disparate
applications into automated workflows.
It's been possible with
technology like AppleScript,
but the problem has been that
it requires a relatively large
investment of time and resources
to develop the necessary expertise.
Small business and the vast majority
of end users have not been able
to take advantage of this power.
And in fact,
even those of us that have the
necessary expertise sometimes
have to make the calculation,
"Is it going to take me longer
to write and debug a script or to
just do what I need to do by hand?"
Well, fortunately,
Automator fundamentally changes this
calculation and dramatically lowers the
bar for automating tasks on Mac OS X.
Now you don't need a map,
you don't need an expert guide,
that guru colleague or precocious nephew,
to help you make the connections
to get your data from
application A to application B.
For the first time,
end users can seamlessly extend and
combine applications on their own.
And in fact,
once developers of complex and powerful
applications start exposing their
application technology through Automator,
users will be able to take advantage of
applications they never could before.
Automator allows customers
to take advantage of the best
that every application has
to offer for their benefit.
Now this is where you come in.
I recently learned how to surf,
and though you can tell from that
awkward little leap that I still
have a lot to learn about surfing,
I do remember one important
lesson from my instructor.
And that is, when a great wave comes,
you'd better catch it because you don't
know when the next one's going to come.
This is a unique opportunity for
you to attract new customers to
your applications by allowing them
to incorporate your application
into Automator workflows.
What we've seen with AppleScript is
that once a customer incorporates your
application into an automated workflow,
they remain loyal.
They do not want to have to
go back and do things by hand.
And for existing customers,
Automator is a breakthrough,
and they are going to expect that their
favorite applications work well with it.
If they don't,
they're going to be forced to
look for third-party solutions,
or if they have the necessary
development or scripting expertise,
to develop their own Automator actions.
The problem for you is
that then you lose control.
You lose control over how your
technology is presented and defined.
So I'd like to encourage you
to get in front of the curve,
catch the wave,
and get to the beach as soon as you can.
So we've been talking
at a very high level.
I'd like to come back to Earth and
talk in a little bit more
detail about what Automator is.
Well, first we're calling it your own
personal automation assistant.
And what it consists of
are four main pieces:
an application to create workflows,
A large set of pre-built actions that
you can use to create those workflows,
tools to create new workflows,
this is where you come in,
and a set of examples of
both actions and workflows.
So, I've been throwing around words here,
actions, workflows, Automator,
and I expect that some of you
who have installed the TigerSeed
DVD may be puzzled and disappointed
that Automator isn't there.
Well, I have a confession to make.
In fact, it is there,
it's just called "Pipeline."
So in fact it is there for
you to start working with.
And I've been talking about actions
and workflows and there are a
couple of other changes like that
which I'll come on to in a moment.
Specifically, an action,
so we can define it for everyone so
you can have a productive conversation,
is a discrete bit of functionality.
This is what developers and scripters
will create and what customers
will use to build their workflows.
An example,
a very simple example that many
people will need to use for
their workflows is copy files.
It takes input files and
copies them to a new location.
Now, here's where we come into one
of the additional terminologies.
We also, in various places,
as you'll see during my presentation,
refer to actions as stages.
And that currently is mostly
on the developer side,
but we will certainly be unifying
on a single term for this concept.
So where do users get actions?
Well, first of all,
we have over 120 in the Tiger seed today,
and we plan to have quite a few
more by the time we ship Tiger.
Some users will be able
to create their own,
and finally we get to where you come in.
We hope that third parties will
create their own set of actions
for their own applications.
You know your application best and
can create a rich set of actions
for your customers to take advantage
of and attract new customers.
So a workflow is composed of actions.
This is what users
will create themselves.
And here's a relatively simple example.
I might want to email to the members
of my address book group family a new
archive of a copy of every image with
keyword "family", "crops 15%" and "CPU
filtered". Now you can think about how
long that would take you to do manually,
especially for more than
a handful of pictures.
But with Automator, it's very simple.
And I'll just point out the fact that
the copy files example action I mentioned
a couple slides ago appears here as
one of the actions in this workflow.
And in fact,
this workflow is composed of six actions,
which are highlighted in color,
so you can get an idea
of how they break down.
So now I'd like to give you a little
tour of the Automator interface.
You saw some of it yesterday
in the keynote and in the
developer tools overview.
I'd like to show you a little bit more.
Here's a new document.
You can see the Filtered Action List.
This is the list of actions that the user
building the workflow can select from.
And it's controlled by the search field
and the action category filtering above.
I've already mentioned the
search field that allows you to
further filter the actions from
the category you have selected.
And this, the view control we
didn't show yesterday,
but this allows you to switch
between filtering by category
and filtering by keyword.
Here we're showing an example of
selecting the change and name keywords,
which then shows us in the filtered
action list the list of actions
having to do with changing file names.
So again,
the area to the right is where you
actually construct your workflow,
and I'd just like to step us
through building a simple example.
We're going to start off finding files,
and in fact,
this action takes advantage of the great
new spotlight technology you heard about
yesterday to find files on my computer.
And I'm looking for files with "icon"
in the name and that are TIFFs.
So I find a bunch of files.
Now I want to scale these
images to a common size.
But what happens when I try to add
the scale images action to my workflow
is I get a warning from Automator,
letting me know that this action
can change the data that's being
passed into it and asks me if
I'd like to actually copy them
first and add a copy files action,
so I'm working with the
copies and not the originals.
So I'm going to say yes,
I want to add that too.
And now I've got three actions
in my workflow and I'm scaling
each image passed to the scale
images action to 480 pixels.
Next,
let's use some fancy quartz technology
and let's apply a blue filter.
And let's see, then we're going to
convert the TIFFs to JPEG,
and then we want to
import them into iPhoto.
And indicated here is once
I've built my workflow,
I can easily click the
"Run" button to execute it.
And once I've built
and tested my workflow,
I can save it.
I can save it as a workflow document,
and in that case I can either
reopen it in Automator and
run it from the tool itself,
or I can save it to Scripts
menu to run from there.
The other choice is to
save it as an application.
This opens up a lot of
additional opportunities.
First of all, then,
it can be double-clicked
and launched from Finder,
but it can also be used as a droplet.
You can then drop files on to feed
the beginning of your workflow.
And still more, you can actually attach a
workflow application as an alarm
in iCal so you can schedule
the execution of your workflows.
And one more little tidbit,
if you use Image Capture to download your
digital photos from your digital camera,
you can actually tell Image Capture
to launch an application when
it's done downloading your photos,
which allows you to build in
an image processing workflow
right in Image Capture.
So that's our little tour
of the Automator interface.
Now I'd like to give you a brief
demo of creating a workflow.
We switch to demo one.
And what I'd like to do since
this is a developer conference
is show you something that's
focused on developers' needs.
Now, we in the Automator team have
over 120 action projects.
And while you may not have that
many projects for your application,
although you may,
I'm sure you have enough that you don't
like to do things manually with them.
Automator can help you eliminate a lot
of the drudgery in your development life.
And it really has for us.
We've used various Automator
workflows as we've developed the
application to simplify our lives.
One very similar to what
I'm going to show you today,
and another that through most of
our development life of Automator
we've used to build the project,
to start with the Xcode project files,
bump the version, build the projects,
package them up,
and attach the Mac OS X package to a
new email to the project team to send
out routes every time we do a new build.
This is just one simple example of
how Automator can simplify your life.
So what I want to do for you today,
is showing yet another feature.
We've got a contextual menu in Finder
which allows you to start building
workflows directly from Finder.
So I don't want to show you 120 projects,
I've just got three here for an example.
And what I want to do is build.
So let's switch over to the keyword
interface just to show you that.
And I'm going to select the
right keyword this time.
Drag over the "Build
Xcode Project" action.
And let's see,
I just want to do a clean build.
And then finally,
I want to capture the build results
in a new text edit document.
So, alright, let's go ahead and try
running that workflow.
So as you can see,
each action is marked with a
green check to let you know that
it's completed successfully.
Now we're building the projects,
and here are our build results.
Great, so we've built our three projects,
but what I want to do is go back
to Automator and save our workflow.
We're going to be using this
throughout our demos today.
And let's see, build projects.
All right, and what I want to do now is
go back and look at our build
and see what we've got here.
So here I'd like to explain
that an Automator action is
a standard Mac OS X bundle.
It has the same contents
that you'd expect.
It's contents, resources.
And we've got a scripts folder here.
This action is built using Apple Scripts,
though you can use other
development languages,
which we'll show you during this session.
And I want to look in
the main.script and,
oh, that's a problem.
I don't want to ship the source
of my action to my users.
I need to strip that out.
The problem is I don't have an action
to set a new build setting in Xcode,
but in fact I will show you
how to do that in a moment.
So can we go back to slides please?
So I showed you a very simple workflow,
just three actions,
but I've already found
a hole in my workflow.
I want to build the projects,
but they're not building the way I want,
and I don't want to have
to go through three.
One thing,
you could open each up in Xcode manually,
add the new build setting,
close it again, but for 120,
you do not want to do that manually.
But I've now got a hole in my workflow,
so how do I fill that in?
Well, the easiest way is to just do
it right there in Automator.
You can add a run script action,
which allows you to enter whatever
Apple script you need to do
what the action needs to do,
right there in the interface.
And you can use this as an easy
way to prototype a new action.
Once you've done that and tested it
and seen that it's useful to you,
you may then want to turn
it into a fully fledged
[Transcript missing]
So before we get to
creating stages though,
we need to talk a little bit about what
is necessary in your application so that
you can actually write Automator actions.
And first,
your application's technology needs
to be either or both have a scripting
dictionary which allows you to
write Apple script-based actions,
or APIs which would allow you
to create actions using Cocoa.
So the framework for the rest of what
you're going to see today is that if you
need to make your application scriptable,
you need to be familiar with Apple events
and if your app is a Cocoa app,
Cocoa scripting.
But what I'm primarily going
to talk about today are
Apple Script Studio and Cocoa bindings
and Xcode to actually build actions.
Now all these technologies have
lots of documentation on both
the C:/DVD and the Apple website,
and there are a number of sessions on
all of these topics this week as well.
So with that, I've now promised you to,
I'll show you how to
fill in that workflow.
Can we come back to demo one please?
So let's clean things up here.
So what we need to do is add a
run script action to our workflow.
We'll add that in right there,
that's where we need it.
Let's remove the comment we get.
To save you watching me type,
I'm just going to drag in
this clipping of the code,
compile it to format it.
And what we're doing here is we
need to tell Xcode to do something,
so we're relying on
Xcode's scriptability.
And all we need Xcode to do is
open the projects that we pass in,
and then use
Xcode Scriptability to add
a new build setting to the
first target in my project.
And what I'm going to do is add
a build setting with the key
"other_osa" flags and a value "-x".
And what this option does when it's
passed to OSACompile is strip out
the source in the built product.
So, let's go ahead and run that workflow.
So Xcode now is opening each project
and adding that build setting and
then now building the project and
we're doing a clean so we remove the
version that had the script in there.
And here's our build results,
and we can search through here to find,
to make sure that the option has
now been passed to OSA Compile,
and there it is.
And just to be paranoid,
let's go back to Finder and look
in our build products and make
sure the script is no longer there.
and it's gone.
So now this action is safe to
send to our customers if we don't
want them to see the source.
So this is great.
I've solved my immediate problem,
but it's completely specific to the
exact problem I'm trying to solve.
You can imagine that you might want
to set different build settings and
different values at different times.
So maybe this would be a useful action
to create a fully fledged action.
and you'll see that soon.
But before we get to that,
we need to talk about the SDK.
So what I hope you'll get out of this
portion of the session is a better
understanding of the various steps
that go into building an action.
From understanding the way
the Xcode project is laid out,
to building the user interface in IB,
using Cocoa bindings to
connect the elements of your
user interface to your code.
And the demos we're going to show you
today will be shown in both writing the
code in AppleScript and Objective-C.
And to do that,
you need to know about the
Automator APIs and public classes.
And finally,
the info P list that's part of
the action is very important.
It gives Automator a lot
more information about how to
present your action to the user.
But wait, there's more.
I'll also touch briefly on how
you test an Automator action
and then how you install it.
And finally,
some design guidelines analogous to
the Apple Human Interface guidelines
that we've developed for making actions
that will work and feel to users the
way that the ones that we create will.
So the project layout,
this is-- Actions are built
using standard Xcode projects.
And again,
we've got the two templates today.
and depending on which one you choose,
you will get either a main script
or a header and source file pair.
A main.nib to hold your actions
user interface if it needs one,
it doesn't have to have one.
You saw the new text edit document action
doesn't have a user interface because
there's no options that are necessary.
A description.rtfd which is a
textual description of what your
action does and that's what appears
in the lower left hand corner
of the Automator user interface.
And finally the Info.plist which
I mentioned a moment ago.
And instead of telling you more about the
rest of the steps in building an action,
I'd like to ask Tim Bumgarner
from the Automator team to come
up and give you a demonstration of
creating an action using AppleScript.
Please welcome Tim.
Thank you, Todd.
So what I'd like to do is we're going
to go ahead and we're going to save
this and we're going to close it off.
We'll reuse that workflow.
And we're going to take and replace
the run script stage that he created,
stage action.
We're going to create that and
replace that action with something
that we create using Apple Script.
And as he mentioned,
we do have two templates for you.
So if you were to go to the
file menu of Xcode itself,
and after it crashes, lucky me.
Thank heavens for G5s.
Okay, so new project.
We go to a new project and you'll
see that there are two choices
and you have to look for them.
They're a little further down.
They are down in the
standard Apple plug-ins.
You'll see that there's an
AppleScript pipeline stage.
This is the project template you'll
want to use if you want to create
it predominantly using AppleScript.
It doesn't preclude you to
adding additional languages,
but if you do want to include at
least have your main run part of
the stage or action be part of that,
you'll want to use this template.
If you want it to use Objective-C or
other C-based languages,
you would choose the
Cocoa Pipeline stage.
But for our demo purposes,
let's go ahead and open up a project
that I've got sort of started so we
don't have to watch me laboriously
drag out user interface items.
So I'm going to open up my project.
And as he mentioned, it looks very,
to those of you that have
used AppleScript Studio,
very similar.
We have a scripts folder here
that has our main script.
Let me open up an editor window.
And we've got, of course,
the other part that's
interesting to us is our NIM.
So I'm going to go ahead and
look at the interface for this
action that I'm about to write.
And you can see that in his run script,
what he did is he took a key and
a value and he put it in the build
settings of the first target of each
project as it came in to the action.
So what we're going to do is build
this action so it can be used
much more in a generic manner.
At any time I decide I need to add a new
setting or change an existing setting,
I could use this action.
And you can see I've got it laid out.
I've got the setting.
This will be the name of the setting
and the value that we might put in.
And I've added one additional twist.
I can not only choose that
I want it for the first target,
I can actually have it applied
to all the targets that
happen to be in that project.
But the way that we put this together
is that we will use this object you'll
see down here in the project window.
This is the parameters object
that gets passed to your action
from one step to the next.
So as your action gets executed,
this is what's going to be passed to it.
So what we're going to do
is we're going to bind.
If any of you got to see
the Cocoa bindings or
are experienced with it,
we use Cocoa bindings in
nearly all of our actions.
So I'm going to go to the info panel,
go to the bindings,
and on this first one I'm
going to bind it to its value.
And I know that I want to
call this setting name.
Go ahead and hit enter and bind that.
I'll go to the value and we'll
bind this to setting value.
And on the last one,
it's not bound to its value.
It's actually going to
be bound to its index.
We want to know that if it's going
to pass an integer in as a parameter.
Zero will be for first,
one will be for all.
So I'll go ahead and type
in which target that I want.
So everything is pretty well set.
That's all I need to
do for the interface.
Keeping in mind that this is
the portion that's inside of
each little action that you see.
So we're just responsible as an
action writer for the content.
Automator takes care of making sure you
end up in the right order and passing
all the information that you need.
So let's go back over and we're
now going to edit our script.
And let's make this
window a little larger.
And you'll see that I have the,
the template starts out
with a simple on run.
This is what gets executed as the stage,
as the workflow is going
through its process.
And what comes in is the input is
the output from the previous stage.
And then the next thing that comes
in is the parameters that the user
set up in your UI for your action.
And so what I'm going to do is reuse
Todd's little script because it's
predominantly very much the same script.
We're going to make a
couple additions to it.
So the first thing I need to do
is get some values out of this.
And then the second thing
I need to do is get some values
out of that parameters object.
And let's see,
we'll do a little one-handed typing
here and put in a couple things.
So we've got a setting name.
We're going to pull that out
of the parameters object.
Let's check syntax so far.
And we've got the value,
and we've got our target,
and we coerce it to an integer
just to make sure we get
it in the format we want.
The only thing that's left to do is,
the way that the script was originally
written was to only apply a fixed value.
He was always passing in other OSA flags,
and he was passing in a key.
And he was always doing
it to the first target.
So what I want to do is grab this,
and I'm going to replace it.
And I'm going to test that which target.
If it's zero, that means I want to apply
it just to the first target.
So it looks very similar
to what we just had,
except for now I get to
pass in the real value,
or the value that's
passed in our parameter,
and also the name.
If I continue on,
it says if which target is one,
this means all.
So I'm going to go through and I'm
going to do a little repeat loop for
each target in the specified project,
and I'm going to do the same thing.
I'm going to apply it there.
So let's finish off the rest of this.
I'll go ahead and save that.
And what I'm going to do is we use
a custom executable as setup for
you automatically in your template.
So when it's time to run,
what you can do is edit
your argument setting.
I'll bring up the inspector.
And you pass in the argument.
Currently it's called "dash stage."
It'll be "dash action" hopefully.
And you just give it in
quotes the name of your stage,
your built product that you're building.
And what we'll do is when I run this,
Automator looks for that argument.
It's an optional launch argument.
And it'll take your built version
and use it inside of Automator.
Instead of having to
worry about putting it,
building it, copying it,
to the right location so it can find it.
It's much easier to do this.
Particularly if you're doing
Objective C or Cocoa programming,
you can debug these very
simply using the same process.
So we've got our application.
I'm going to go ahead and close that.
Go back to our previously saved one.
And what I'm going to do
is go ahead and go up here.
We're going to delete this,
ignore the little artifact.
And I'm going to go find
the one that I just created.
I believe I called it "Set
Build Settings." So I'm
going to drag this in here.
I'll put it in its place
where it was before.
I'm going to put other OSA flags.
And I'm going to pass that -x.
And in this case,
instead of just the first,
I want to apply it to all.
So I think everything looks good.
I'll go ahead and build and run.
And you'll see if you can
right here in the back,
it's actually opening each project
in Xcode and setting the value.
It's now building those.
And if I do the same sort of thing
and search for "dash x" or "dash
x," you'll see that it is indeed
being passed to the OSI compile.
So you can see how very simple it is now.
I can put whatever build
setting I need to apply to that.
So it's very simple to take
that prototype and wrap it
up into a user interface and
put it in using AppleScript.
Thank you, Todd.
So now you've seen how to create
an action using Apple Script.
The next thing is to talk about how
you create an action using Cocoa.
And to do that, we need to discuss
briefly the Cocoa APIs.
So again,
we see the name "Pipeline," but these
are in the PipelineEngine.framework,
and there are two public classes
of interest to developers
that want to create Pipeline
Automator actions using Cocoa.
PE Stage is the abstract base class,
but PE Bundle Stage,
which is a subclass of PE Stage,
is the stage that you will want to
subclass from to create your own actions.
and Eric Peiton,
another one of our Automator engineers,
will come up and show you how
to build an action using Cocoa.
Thanks, Todd.
So we saw Tim do the whole
thing in AppleScript,
and it was fast and it
was quick and it was easy.
It's just as easy to do the same
kind of thing in Objective-C.
However, instead of repeating what
Todd and Tim have both done,
I'm going to go ahead and create
a different action that does
something a little bit different.
What I'd like to do is,
one of the things that all
of this generates is this big
text edit document at the end.
Well, 95% of what's in that text edit
document is what was successful.
Well, you don't really care about
what was successful in a build.
That's great, fine, wonderful.
What you really are worried about is,
what warnings did I get,
what errors did I get during my build?
So what I'd like to do is,
I'd like to create a small action
that parses through all that text,
finds the warnings and errors,
encapsulates that information,
creates new text,
and passes that to the text
edit document that gets created.
And to do that,
we're going to use a Cocoa Automator.
So, we're going to use a Cocoa Automator
action instead of an AppleScript one.
Now, as Tim showed,
you just go into Project, New,
Cocoa Pipeline Stage in the
seed and create your action.
We'll do the exact same thing,
and I'm going to go ahead and
start off with a pre-built
stage so that you can see it.
We can go ahead and close this.
We don't need that open right now.
pre-built one called create build report
you'll notice it has the executable
automator executable already set up
for us and all that kind of stuff if
you look in here in the classes you'll
notice that there's a create build report
dot h and a create build report dot
m in the dot h you'll notice that it is
a pe bundle stage as todd just mentioned
in the last slide and in the code you'll
notice that it it has a one method run
with input from stage error now this
method uh is all you really have to
have to make one of these things of
course you can extend and do as much as
you want outside of this but this method
is called at runtime when it's your
turn to go we pass you the input from
the previous stages or previous actions
output we pass you who that person was
in this case it's called pe stage and
we pass you an empty dictionary which you
can fill up with your error information
that can be passed back then presented to
the user if something happens during the
flow that you want to return um before we
add the code into here we need to go into
the nib and do essentially
the same thing that Tim did.
And everything is managed using bindings.
This saves you the work of managing
saving the preferences off.
We take care of everything.
If everything is bound correctly,
there's nothing for you to do.
You draw your interface,
you hook it up to the bindings,
and the parameters object,
and you're done.
In this case,
we have included a checkbox,
include warnings in the build report.
And what this will allow
you to do is if checked,
it will show you the actual warnings
in the build report instead of
just the number of warnings.
So we will go ahead and move that,
go to the bindings.
We will add a value, include warnings.
And we're going to go ahead and
and we're done.
We'll save off that nib and it's
literally just as easy as that.
You drop a checkbox,
you add it to a binding, you're done.
When Todd a little later
talks about the InfoP-List,
you'll be able to see how these defaults
are set for these different bindings and
everything for you in our InfoP-List.
But for the most part, at this point,
your interface is complete.
We'll go back to our code and
For expediency's sake,
instead of showing you all this code,
I will go ahead and just
copy and paste it here.
And what I've got is I've got a run
with input that's already filled out.
The intention here is to take
that data that is passed to us,
coerce it into a string,
parse through that string
looking for specific tokens,
count up the number of
warnings and errors,
create a new string that we
want to show to the user,
and then coerce that back into
whatever needs to be passed to
the next object in the flow.
We'll get a string out of
what came in previously,
which we call the build report here.
It's the input.
We go through, we course,
we look for certain things that
happen to be in the Xcode output.
Of course, in your code,
you might want to do something far more
fancy using reg Xs and stuff like that,
but this is just an example.
We look for warnings.
We look for errors,
we add them all up and
create a new string,
and then we return, and at the very end,
you'll notice here,
we return an NSAppleEventDescriptor
descriptor with string.
Now we're doing this because of something
else you're going to learn about later.
You declare your data types.
In this type,
we're saying we're a data blob,
and a data blob is defined as
our NSAppleEventDescriptor.
There's more about this in the SDK,
and it's not something that is
germane to this exact situation.
But let's go ahead and save and build.
and it should finish and run.
And you notice when
Automator starts here,
"I should have a build report
stage." So here you can
see the build report stage.
So let's go ahead and open up
our previously built document.
And we will...
add our Create Build Report at
the end of our workflow but
before our new TextEdit document.
You notice here that it's already
automatically checked for us.
You'll see later that
You'll see later that the defaults
parameters we had set for our bundle have
this already set to be on by default.
Even though we didn't have
to turn it on in the nib,
we already read the defaults out
of the bindings and set that.
One thing we'll also do is we'll go
ahead and disable the set build settings.
We've already set the build
settings in all these projects.
When I disabled it,
I checked on the enable/disable
box up there in the upper right
hand corner of each of the actions.
That action will be skipped
over in the workflow.
It will not execute and
it's grayed out and stuff.
You notice the little dash there
instead of a number letting
you know that it's disabled.
I should now be able to
save and run this thing.
What it will do is it will
clean and build all my projects.
It will create a build report.
There we have our little build report.
It threw away all of my projects.
It threw away all the
stuff we didn't care about.
It left us with the total warnings, one,
and a copy of the warnings,
unused variable, unused variable.
We don't write code with warnings,
so we had to actually insert one.
For your sake, of course.
That's my demo.
Back to you, Todd.
Thank you very much, Eric.
I just wanted to underline
two points that Eric made,
but to make sure you get this.
If you saw, there was no script smart
group in Xcode there.
There's no Apple script there at all.
Now, we love Apple script,
but if you prefer to work in Cocoa,
that's great.
You can do that to create
your Automator actions.
The other thing to mention is that we've
been showing Cocoa Bindings exclusively
for managing the Actions User Interface.
But in fact, you can use what you used in
Cocoa before Cocoa Bindings existed,
or you can use AppleScript Studio also,
if you already know that technology.
So we've already made several references
to the Info.plist of your action.
And what I'd like to do now is give
you a little roadmap for which keys
are there and what they're used for.
So there are four kind of basic keys.
These are all strings,
and they're reflected in various
ways in the Automator user interface.
PL application is the first one,
and this is used to specify
which application that your
action uses to do its work.
And you can use that to
search to find actions.
PL category is again a string and you
can use one of ours that are shown in
the user interface or you can create
your own which can be used by users
to do searches for your actions.
PLIcon is used for the icon that
appears next to the action's name
in the filtered actions list.
NPL name is used for both searches
as well as for displaying the
action in the filtered action
list as you see on the screenshot.
So let's get into one of
the keys that's a little bit
more complex and interesting.
The accepts and provides dictionaries
are the actions way of telling Automator
what kinds of valid input it can handle,
as well as what kind
of output it provides.
So both of these dictionaries contain a
types array which allows you to specify
one or more type identifier strings,
which I'll get to in a moment,
again to tell Automator what
kinds of data it handles.
The accepts dictionary
includes an additional key,
an optional boolean,
which tells Automator whether or not your
action requires input to do its work.
Some actions don't need any input
to do what they're going to do,
and you can tell Automator that
in the accepts optional boolean.
That will allow Automator to tell
users whether or not a particular
action can be used to start a workflow,
for example.
So type identifiers.
They're loosely based on Apple's
uniform type identifiers.
These are just a few examples,
the first being the most general type
that is the default that you will get
when you create a new action project.
And the, I guess we don't actually
have it up there,
but public.data is the type
that is returned by the
Create Build Report action
that Eric just built.
But this just gives you kind of a flavor.
The complete list of current
type identifiers is in the
release notes on the seed DVD.
So a few more guidelines on
accepts and provides dictionaries.
You really want to keep in mind
that the more other actions
that your action works with,
the more useful it's
going to be to users.
So you should really think about
how interoperable it will be based
on the types that you support.
You should make the accepts and
provides types as specific as you can.
That gives Automator the maximum guidance
so that it can provide guidance to users
on which actions are appropriate to go
next in the workflow they're building.
I've alluded to this,
that the types is an array that
you can specify multiple types,
and you should definitely do that
if your action can handle them.
We have several actions in the
seed that can handle multiple types
such as iPhoto photos and albums.
It can by itself extract the photos
from an album that's passed in.
If your action doesn't need any
input to do what it's going to do,
for example, our log output action,
which just allows you to see
what the input from the previous
action is in the workflow,
you should just return the
input you're given as the output
and leave the types general,
which is the default.
So, yet another kind of side issue
here is that when you create
actions for your own applications,
your applications have different
types than say iPhoto does,
so you may want to create your
own type identifier strings.
And you can definitely do that.
What you might want to do in addition,
if you do that,
is to create conversion actions.
And what conversion actions are,
are to link actions whose
types don't directly match.
For example, in Sal's demo yesterday,
you saw that he had an import
images into iPhoto action,
which returns iPhoto photo objects,
and that as the input for the
create new IVD slideshow action,
which expects files.
Now, why did that work?
Because the IVD action doesn't
know anything about iPhoto photos.
Well, what happened is that we
have a conversion action
from iPhoto photos to files.
And the neat thing here is that,
as you saw,
there was no extra action inserted there.
Automator automatically
detected the need for it,
but it invisibly adds it to the workflow,
so the user needs to know neither that
it's necessary or that it's there.
And you can add these for the
new types that you create.
One last detail there
that's on the slide,
which you can obviously read,
but these are built exactly
like any other Automator action.
The only difference is once you build it,
you need to change the extension of
the bundle from .stage to .cstage.
So the next key I'd like to talk about,
and Eric mentioned this already,
the PL default parameters.
This key is used to hold default
values for the values that you're
managing using Cocoa bindings.
And this is why the checkbox that
Eric added to the user interface
was checked when we launched the
action because we had a PL default
parameter in there to set the
value of the checkbox to true.
and these are just based on the types for
what the user interface element needs.
These are just a few examples.
So I showed you the keyword
interface in the first demo.
This is an array of keywords.
You can specify as many
keywords as you like,
and you can use the
ones that we've created,
which you can see in the interface,
as well as create your own.
Again,
users can still search for keywords that
don't appear in the keyword interface.
PL Required Resources is
a little more complicated,
but it's very useful.
If your action needs some resource
to be installed on the user's
system for it to work properly,
this allows you to tell Automator, "Hey,
I need this thing or I can't work,
so let the user know that I'm
not going to work." There are
three ways to do this.
The first is shown here on the screen.
You specify the type "application,"
and then you can specify the
application's resource by its bundle ID,
its display name,
which is what's shown in Finder,
and its version.
The warning screen shot shows what
the user will see if they try to
add such an action without that
resource being present on the system.
There are two additional
ways to specify this.
You can also specify it by creator code,
and you just change the type
from application to creator code,
and then specify the creator
code as the resource string.
And finally,
if it's not an application that you
need on the system for this to work,
it's some other file
or folder of some sort,
you can do that as well by specifying
a required resource of type file and
specifying the full path as the resource.
Now this I also showed
in my first demo today.
If you add an action that can lose
data from what's passed into it,
you need to tell Automator that
with this PL warning key and the
user will see a warning as shown
here and as you saw earlier.
What you can do is propose a new
action to be added before your action
that will make the workflow safe.
And that's what I did in my demo
when I was going to scale images.
Another example of crop images,
you obviously could lose
data from what's input.
That would be a level 2.
Level 1,
we're using for reversible changes.
For example, flipping an image.
You can always flip it again
to get back the original.
And you can also specify exactly
the way that warning will look,
the message,
the action that's proposed if necessary,
and the button labels as well.
So those are the major steps in
creating an Automator action.
Now I'd like to just talk briefly about,
well, OK,
I've created this thing in Xcode.
Now how do I make sure it works properly?
Well, we've shown you this already.
What you can do is add a custom
executable to your action project,
and with the seed, it will need to be a
pipeline custom executable.
Add a launch argument,
"dash stage" and then pass the project
name "dot stage". And what this does is
it passes that argument to pipeline when
it runs and it will appear as if your
action is already loaded in pipeline.
This makes the development cycle
much more efficient and very much
like what you would be used to
from building a normal application.
So once you've got Automator running
and your new action is there,
you need to test it in
the context of a workflow.
And when testing workflows,
what you can do is use
the log output action,
which I've already mentioned,
and you can add that in between each
action that you want to see the input
going into the next one to verify
that your action is working properly.
If you also want to be able to pause or
cancel the workflow at any step in there,
you can add another action
which is on your seed,
confirmation dialog.
And if you add this pair of actions
between every action in your workflow,
you can actually step
through each step of the way,
seeing the output as it goes
into the input of the next stage.
So where do actions live?
Well, the actions that we provide are in
System Library Pipeline currently,
and that again will obviously change.
When you build your own actions,
it depends on whether you want
them to be available on a per
user or a per machine basis,
and you can then install them
in the proper library folder.
So now that we've talked about from the
beginning to end of building your action,
I'd like to kind of back up and
get you to think about some of
the guidelines that you should
think about as you're laying out
your interface and even thinking
about what should your action do.
So why do we need design guidelines?
Well, we want to help you to achieve
a consistent look and feel with
every other action out there,
both that we create and that
your colleagues will create.
We encourage you to use
our actions as examples.
You can see all of their user
interfaces and how they operate,
obviously, in workflows.
And we will ship as many examples as
we can with the actual project source.
The materials that you can download
from connect.apple.com for this
session include three example projects
of actions that we've created.
and the draft guidelines which cover
a little bit more than what I'm
going to talk about today are in
your release notes on the Seed DVD.
So first,
a little bit of philosophy about
how we think about actions.
We think that you really should
try to keep them as small
and discreet as possible.
Keep separate actions separate.
The better way to combine two
different tasks is to combine two
different actions in a workflow,
not to kind of cram them
together into one large,
complex, single action.
That's going to be both harder
for users to understand what
it does and to configure,
and also it will probably
make it less likely to be
interoperable with other actions.
So again, the overriding goal here
is to keep it simple.
So a little bit about naming actions.
We encourage you to use longer,
more descriptive names.
As you've seen in the
filtered action list,
there's quite a bit of real estate
there for you to use a longer name.
For example,
"Add attachments to front mail message."
That gives a very good description
when a user's looking through the list.
Is this really what I'm looking for?
Do use plural objects.
Actions should handle multiple objects.
It may be that you're only past one,
but you should not have an action
that only accepts one object.
In that case, the name should match.
The only time you should use a singular
object is if the action accepts only a
single object to multiple other objects.
An example here is we've got a series
of actions to change file names.
In the "Add date to file names" action,
there's a single date that
gets added to each file name.
In that case, the date would be singular.
Finally, don't use "s" in parentheses
to indicate that your action
handles one or more objects.
Every action should
handle multiple objects,
so you don't need to let people know
that it handles both one or more.
Again,
in the interest of keeping it simple,
you should minimize the use of boxes.
There's one specific example
I'll come onto in a moment
where a box is a good idea,
but you should try to
keep it to a minimum.
Your user interface should be
as small and clean as possible.
If you've got too many things
that need separate boxes,
you may want to think about splitting
it up into multiple actions.
And as you've seen,
we've got kind of more width
and depth in the workflow area,
so you want to minimize
the use of vertical space.
One good way to do that is avoid radio
buttons and use pop-up menus instead,
even for as little as two choices,
because the pop-up menu is going
to use less vertical space.
More on keeping it simple,
you should avoid tab views.
Again, this is a pretty good sign
that your action is getting too
complicated if you need a tab view.
Again,
there's an exception that we will have
in one of the actions that we've created,
crop images.
When cropping images,
you might want to crop by
dimensions or by percentages,
and as you can see in the screenshots,
those two different types of cropping
require very different user interfaces.
And instead of having them
both there in the action,
one way to avoid that problem
is to use a hidden tab view,
and then when the user
makes the top level choice,
you can swap to the proper
interface and keep things simple.
Another thing that will give users a
lot of guidance is to provide feedback.
And again, one example of that are
progress indicators.
We've got an action called "Create
Events for People" that needs
to populate a pop-up menu with
the iCal calendars that the user
already has on their system.
So when the user adds the
action to the workflow,
we need to ask iCal for those
calendars to populate the pop-up menu.
So there's a little progress
indicator that lets the user know,
"Hey, wait a second.
Before you start trying
to configure this action,
I need to do something."
Another way to provide feedback is to
give the user an example of what actually
the action is going to do to their data.
And there are two good examples here.
This could be textually or graphically.
The "Flip Images" action does it very
well graphically by giving you an
example image and then what it will
look like after the action is through.
And for the "Make Sequential
File Names" action,
down in the lower left hand corner,
it gives you exactly what the resulting
file names will look like based on the
configuration that the user has chosen.
In that case, you should put these
examples inside a box,
this is the one exception,
labeled "Example" and use the same
font size and color that you've
used in the rest of your user
interface so it's not glaring.
It's there for the user to find
but not necessarily in their face.
So a little more guidelines
about the guidance on the
layout of your user interface.
We do use 10 pixel margins around the
outside of your Actions user interface.
As Tim mentioned during his demo,
you only have control over that
piece of the user interface.
Automator itself then needs to add around
it the title bar and the other pieces
that you've seen in the workflow area.
And by using a consistent margin
around the interface you control,
that allows us to do a better job
of making your Action look good
when a user adds it to a workflow.
Use small controls and small
text within the interface.
Again, this helps to keep things,
use little space so that users
can fit more actions in the
visible area in their workflow.
Unless, of course, you've got one of our
great new 30-inch displays,
in which case that's really
not relevant anymore.
And we encourage you again to
follow the Apple Human Interface
Guidelines wherever possible.
One thing to avoid,
and we've confessed here,
this one is still in your seat
and hasn't been cleaned up yet,
but don't repeat what's in the title
in the user interface that you create.
That just, again, wastes space.
The user can read the title and
understand that this is about
changing the case of file names.
Finally,
one thing that many actions need to do
is ask the user for a location to either
save a file or find a file or folder.
And we'd like to standardize this across
actions so users know what to expect.
This gives you an idea of
what that should look like.
A pop-up menu with standard locations
as well as three additional options.
A "Choose" option,
which allows a user to choose another
arbitrary folder on their system.
A "Prompt User" which,
as Sal showed in his demo yesterday,
will allow the,
when the workflow is executed,
will then prompt the user that's running
it to enter the selection at that time.
And finally, a "Temporary Items" option,
which means that this is for files
that are only needed during the
context of the workflow and then
will be removed by Automator at
the end of the workflow execution.
And what we will do to help you
standardize this is we will provide
a widget in a pipeline IB palette,
well it will be called an Automator
IB palette when you see it,
that you can just drag out into your
user interface and it will be configured
properly to meet the guidelines.
This is not in the seed yet,
but we will give this to you.
So to sum up,
I hope that you've learned and
understand much better what Automator is,
why it's important to you,
and how you can develop for Automator
using your application's technology.
We really want users to be able to
use Automator to automate all sorts
of interesting tasks on Mac OS X,
and the more applications
that have actions,
the easier it will be
for them to do that.
So you have a few actions items,
as it were.
Make your application
scriptable if it is not,
so that you and your customers can
create actions using AppleScript.
To create a set of APIs that you
can use or your customers can use
to create actions using Cocoa.
And to create a great set of actions
that make your application look good
and allow customers to incorporate
it into their automated workflows,
and therefore you've
got a customer for life.
So we have some hours when the
Automator team will be available to
speak with you to answer any questions
you may have this afternoon in the
Mac OS X labs and tomorrow morning.
There's not a lot of
documentation yet available.
There are release notes on your
C:/DVD and updated release notes
in the materials for this session,
as well as a tutorial and the
sample code I mentioned earlier.
[Transcript missing]
Here's some contact information in
DTS and the technology management.